documentation for ccda export (#1038)
canvas-medical/documentation: collections/_sdk/effects/ccda_export.md

---
title: "CreateCCDAExport"
slug: "effect-create-ccda-export"
excerpt: "Effect to create a CCDA (Consolidated Clinical Document Architecture) document for a patient."
hidden: false
---

> Creates a CCDA document for a patient with the provided XML content. This effect allows plugins to generate and store CCDA XML documents, which can be used for clinical document exchange, patient summaries, or referrals.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Creates a C-CDA document for a patient with the provided XML content. This effect allows plugins to generate and store C-CDA XML documents, which can be used for clinical document exchange, patient summaries, or referrals.

This effect stores a C-CDA document, generating or otherwise sourcing that document is the responsibility of the plugin.
```

    <id root="document-id"/>
    <code code="34133-9" displayName="Summarization of Episode Note"
          codeSystem="2.16.840.1.113883.6.1"/>
    <title>Patient Summary</title>
    <effectiveTime value="20240101120000"/>
    <confidentialityCode code="N" codeSystem="2.16.840.1.113883.5.25"/>
    <languageCode code="en-US"/>
</ClinicalDocument>"""

effect = CreateCCDAExport(
    patient_id="a1b2c3d4-e5f6-7890-abcd-ef1234567890",
    content=ccda_xml,
    document_type=DocumentType.CCD
)

return [effect.apply()]
```

### Creating a Referral Document

```python
from canvas_sdk.effects.ccda import CreateCCDAExport, DocumentType

effect = CreateCCDAExport(
    patient_id="a1b2c3d4-e5f6-7890-abcd-ef1234567890",
    content=referral_xml_content,
    document_type=DocumentType.REFERRAL
)

return [effect.apply()]
```

### Using Default Document Type

When `document_type` is not specified, it defaults to `CCD`:

```python
from canvas_sdk.effects.ccda import CreateCCDAExport

effect = CreateCCDAExport(
    patient_id="a1b2c3d4-e5f6-7890-abcd-ef1234567890",
    content=ccda_xml
)

# document_type will be "CCD"
return [effect.apply()]
```

## Use Cases

> - **Clinical Document Exchange**: Generate CCDAs for sharing patient information with external systems or providers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Clinical Document Exchange**: Generate C-CDAs for sharing patient information with external systems or providers.
```
